Release notes for 1.6 (#7238)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.6.x/announcing-1.6/change-notes/index.md

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.6 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## User facing changes

> - ***Added*** experimental support for the [Kubernetes Service APIs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-apis).

Reviewer: Can we link here instead: https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/service-apis/

Reviewer: Actually, those look pretty sparse too if you start clicking on links. Either way, that GitHub has very little content. Is there somewhere better to link?

Reviewer 2: No that is pretty much the extent of it so far

Reviewer 3: Sorry this says user facing but it is not clear how it is related to istio user?   If there is a link to guide user how to leverage this it would be great

Author: This is the PR that implemented the work: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/21594/. I don't believe there is any documentation other than generated docs.

> - ***Added*** experimental support for the [Kubernetes Service APIs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-apis).

Reviewer: if/where possible, these should link to issues. Might not be possible for 1.6.

Author: Updated

> - ***Added*** the new [Workload Entry](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource. This will allow easier configuration for non-Kubernetes workloads to join the mesh.

Reviewer 3: should we use relative path here to refer to workload-entry?

Author: Done for all docs

- ***Added*** support for configuring Gateway topology settings like number of trusted proxies deployed in front

> - ***Added*** experimental mesh-wide tracing configuration API. This API provides control of trace sampling rates, the maximum tag lengths for URL tags, and custom tags extraction for all traces within the mesh. 

Reviewer 3: This is cool, where can I read about this!

Reviewer 4: https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/configurability/

Reviewer 3: nice thanks @douglas-reid

> - ***Added*** experimental request classification filter support. This feature enables operators to configure new attributes for use in telemetry, based on request information. A primary use case for this feature is labeling of traffic by API method.  TODO: doc

Reviewer 3: If there is no doc, I would prefer us remove it.  Having a feature without any doc should not exist in release note.

Reviewer 4: there is a doc: https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/

> - ***Added*** Wasm extension distribution support. TODO: docs

Author: @mandarjog on behalf of Doug

Reviewer 5: Lets nuke this for now. I dont remember seeing any proper framework or PRs to allow users to configure wasm extensions for their gateways/sidecars.

Reviewer 4: @rshriram it might not meet your bar for "proper", but the work has definitely been on-going: https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy-wasm/commit/356b66b357c49b52b28335431d73508dfea3442c. we should mark this experimental, but I do believe the intention is to have this tried out in some capacity in this release.

Reviewer 6: @douglas-reid there s a "TODO: docs" - is there a related document?

Reviewer 4: I don't have one. This is why I added @mandarjog in my original suggestion :). Maybe @bianpengyuan knows of one in development?

Reviewer 7: `distribution support` seems to be too much. We should make it `remote load support`. I am planning to add a section for that in this page: https://deploy-preview-7242--preliminary-istio.netlify.app/docs/reference/config/telemetry/telemetry_v2_with_wasm/.

Reviewer 7: @jacob-delgado Please remove this line. We run into some issue with remote load feature.

Author: Removed

> - TODO: add a statement around networking v1alpha3 API. Will it be removed in 1.6 or announce deprecation?

Reviewer 3: I think @howardjohn said no change here, no plan for deprecation either.  if others agree (@louiscryan @rshriram @costinm @nrjpoddar ) ok to not mention it here.

## Improvements

> - ***Improved*** support for [Kubernetes Ingress](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/kubernetes-ingress/), adding support for reading certificates from Secrets, `pathType`, and IngressClass.

Reviewer 3: relative path

> - ***Added*** a new `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to override proxy configuration per pod.

Reviewer 3: this is cool, I hope there is sample for this too!  Can I use this to customize preStop configuration per pod?

Reviewer 6: @jacob-delgado did you complete a sample for the tracing experimental API. I am not sure I wish to torture myself with more documentation work, but I'm happy to help take some load off your plate so you can focus on the release notes. I Will need a gist to work with. Feel free to leave a message here if you wish to take me up on this offer. If not, I would recommend removing from the release notes. If we communicate a feature without documentation, our audience will ask "Where is the documentation?" and then we have to scramble to produce some.

Author: @sdake Thank you so much for the offer. John wrote up a similar example found https://gist.github.com/howardjohn/15618fd3a1d2ed54b95ae6fb50548433. It would be something similar to

```yaml
        annotations:
          proxy.istio.io/config: |
            tracing:
              custom_tags:
                tag_header:                    # user-defined name
                  header:
                    name: <CLIENT-HEADER>
                    defaultValue: <VALUE>      # optional
```

Author: @sdake Found an issue with the annotations, but I've put up a fix for istio 1.6.1. I'll add it to the known issues for now.

PR to resolve this is https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/7348. I will link to that when we ship 1.6.1.

- ***Added*** support for using appProtocol to select the [protocol for a port](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) for Kubernetes 1.18+.

> - SDS for mixer? Not sure we need this or its an implementation detail

Reviewer 2: Agreed, we can remove (I added this initially)

> - ***Improved*** Prometheus integration experience by adding standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are availabe in the [design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TTeN4MFmh4aUYYciR4oDBTtJsxl5-T5Tu3m3mGEdSo8/edit).

Reviewer: is it ok to link to Google docs?

Reviewer 2: We should use https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus#option-2-metrics-merging

Author: updated

> - ***Improved*** Prometheus integration experience by adding standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are availabe in the [design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TTeN4MFmh4aUYYciR4oDBTtJsxl5-T5Tu3m3mGEdSo8/edit).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Improved*** Prometheus integration experience by adding standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are available in the [operations guide for Prometheus](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus#option-2-metrics-merging).
```

> - ***Improved*** Prometheus integration experience by adding standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are available in the [operations guide for Prometheus](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus#option-2-metrics-merging).

Reviewer 2: Its implemented, but off by default. The docs are accurate

> - ***Updated*** default Telemetry V2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to untrusted host header and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for request hits Blackhole and Passthrough at gateway.

Reviewer 6: lowercase Telemetry please. I'd recommend lowercase v2. If this is not already in the dictionary, please add to the dictionary (.spelling override file).

Blackhole and Passthrough should be lowercase.

Cheers
-steve

- ***Improved*** support for [customizing v2 metrics generation](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/). This allows mesh operators to add and remove labels used in Istio metrics based on expressions over the set of available request and response attributes.

> - ***Improved*** the output of the istioctl install command.

Reviewer: how?

Reviewer 2: Its a surprise :slightly_smiling_face: 

The output shows more information about what its doing now and is a "smart" cli so it looks a bit nicer, has color, etc

Author: Added a bit of context.

> - ***Added*** a new command, istioctl install. This is an alias for manifest apply.

Reviewer 6: This is a duplicate of line 40, and I prefer line 40's wording. You can put line 40 here or keep where it is 👍

Author: Good find. Updated.

> ## Installation Impacts

Reviewer 6: `## Installation impact`

Author: Done

- TODO: add a statement around file mounted gateway removed and impact to users.

> - ***Removed*** the legacy Helm charts. Please see the [Upgrade guide](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/setup/upgrade/) for migration.

Reviewer 6: Please add a seprate line item for the upgrade guide. In Theory, operators install Istio once after an evaluation period completes, and upgrade each time a z stream is released. As such, upgrade is critical.

The project has finally tackled the in-place upgrade problem, and there should be much fanfare about this success!

- ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These are now read directly from the mesh configuration.

> - Moved the proxy readiness probe to port 15021

Reviewer: These two lines need the proper formatting

- ***Removed*** Security alpha API
- ***Removed*** the Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments. These were disabled by default in 1.5, and all functionality has moved into Istiod.
- ***Removed*** ports 15029-15032 from the default ingressgateway. It is recommended to expose telemetry addons by [Host routing](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/gateways/) instead.

> - TODO helm3/kustomize support? should we mention something here?

Reviewer 6: There is no committed helmv3 support, although Helmv3 should just work. Kustomize should just work. The project doesn't wish to mention support for tooling until several dependencies are met, the most important of which is redefining the installation API.

Author: Removed this line. Thanks.

- ***Improved*** installation to not manage the installation namespace, allowing more flexibility.

> - ***Removed*** the legacy istio-pilot configurations, such as Service.

Reviewer 6: line 37 doesn't feel like it warrants an entire line item in the release notes.

Reviewer 2: This is majorly user facing in my opinion. Any calls to `istio-pilot` will now fail. This impacted Kiali, for example

Reviewer 3: oh this is important to note, especially for people using prior istio at 1.4.

Author: Keeping.

- ***Removed*** built in Istio configurations from the installation, including the Gateway, VirtualServices, and mTLS settings.

> - ***Added*** a new preview profile, allowing users to try out new experimental features.

Reviewer 6: the preview profile was already added in 1.5, although not advertised in the 1.5 release notes. I suppose its fine to add it to these release notes instead.

Reviewer 2: We could mention whats in the preview?

Reviewer 3: I believe we missed the 1.5 release train for preview profile.

Author: I'll add a sentence or two on what preview does.

> - ***Added*** `istioctl install` command as a replacement for `istioctl manifest apply`.

Reviewer 6: this is duplicated with line 25. Please keep the language in line 40.

Author: Nice catch. Removed this line.

- ***Added*** functionality to save installation state in a CustomResource in the cluster.
- ***Changed*** Gateway ports used (15020) and [resolution](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23432#issuecomment-622208734) for end users

> - ***Added*** Allow users to add a custom hostname for istiod

Reviewer 6: this is vague. Is there associated documentation? Allowing users to add a custom hostname for Istiod sounds like we are granting permission. We serve for the benefit of our operator community. I would recommend removing the word `Allow entirely and replace with something like `**Added** mechanism to add a custom hostname for Isitod` whatever a custom hostname here means. This needs documentation or should be removed.

Reviewer 3: Yes, this is useful if user needs custom hostname for istiod, docs are being worked:  https://github.com/istio/istio.io/issues/7243

> ## Bug fixes / Misc

Reviewer 6: `## Bug Fixes & miscellaneous changes`

Misc is not a word in our spelling file (nor should be 👍

Author: Thanks. Done.

> - ***Fixed*** a [bug](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16458) blocking external HTTPS/TCP traffic in some cases.

Reviewer 6: Ordered first in this unordered list should be 

```
- **Improved** the quality of the website content and structure
```

Author: Added

- ***Added*** the new [Workload Entry](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource. This will allow easier configuration for non-Kubernetes workloads to join the mesh.
- ***Added*** configuration for gateway topology. This addresses sanitizing and providing useful [X-Forward-For headers](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/7679).
- ***Added*** experimental [mesh-wide tracing configuration API](/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/configurability/). This API provides control of trace sampling rates, the [maximum tag lengths](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14563) for URL tags, and [custom tags extraction](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13018) for all traces within the mesh.
- ***Added*** experimental [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/) filter support. This feature enables operators to configure new attributes for use in telemetry, based on request information. A primary use case for this feature is labeling of traffic by API method.
- TODO: add a statement around networking v1alpha3 API. Will it be removed in 1.6 or announce deprecation?

> ## Improvements

Reviewer 8: IMO the new structure is fine.
The exception is this heading. "Improvements" is too vague. Readers might ask: Improvement compared to what? The past release? Other projects? What type of improvements? Why is adding an annotation an improvement?
After reading through the notes in the section, it seems to me that a better heading would be "UX changes"
@jacob-delgado WDYT?

Reviewer 9: @rcaballeromx @jacob-delgado I don't think the old and new structures need to be mutually exclusive. The functional area breakdown is an important filter for users only using a subset of Istio features. See my comment on slack.

Author: I agree with @frankbu. I just misunderstood the comment Louis made. I'll revert this to the previous structure, but organize by the priority he mentioned.

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.6 release notes.
weight: 10
---

> ## Traffic Management

Reviewer 10: Can we order by utility/relevance. Generally want use-facing API changes top of the lists (Kubernetes Service APIs, Workload Entry, etc.) then improvements, installation impacts and finally bug fixes.

Author: Sure. I added sections based on your feedback and then took a rough guess at placing each item.

- ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These are now read directly from the mesh configuration.
- ***Added*** a new `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to override proxy configuration per pod.
- ***Added*** support for using appProtocol to select the [protocol for a port](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) for Kubernetes 1.18+.
- ***Added*** the new [Workload Entry](https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource. This will allow easier configuration for non-Kubernetes workloads to join the mesh.
- ***Added*** support for configuring Gateway topology settings like number of trusted proxies deployed in front
- Moved the proxy readiness probe to port 15021
- TODO: add a statement around file mounted gateway removed and impact to users.
- TODO: add a statement around networking v1alpha3 API.. will it be removed in 1.6 or announce deprecation?

## Security

- TODO removal of alpha API
- SDS for mixer? Not sure we need this or its an implementation detail

## Telemetry

- ***Added*** Grafana dashboards to grafana.com TODO docs.

> - ***Improved*** Prometheus scraping configuration TODO docs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Improved*** Prometheus integration experience by adding standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are availabe in the [design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TTeN4MFmh4aUYYciR4oDBTtJsxl5-T5Tu3m3mGEdSo8/edit).
```

> - ***Improved*** Grafana dashboards to adapt to the new Istiod deployment model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Updated*** Grafana dashboards to adapt to the new Istiod deployment model.
```

- ***Updated*** default Telemetry V2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to untrusted host header and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for request hits Blackhole and Passthrough at gateway.

> - ***Added*** experimental tracing options

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** experimental mesh-wide tracing configuration API. This API provides control of trace sampling rates, the maximum tag lengths for URL tags, and custom tags extraction for all traces within the mesh. 
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** experimental request classification filter support. This feature enables operators to configure new attributes for use in telemetry, based on request information. A primary use case for this feature is labeling of traffic by API method.  TODO: doc
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Improved*** support for [customizing v2 metrics generation](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/). This allows mesh operators to add and remove labels used in Istio metrics based on expressions over the set of available request and response attributes.
```

Author: Added

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** alpha support for adding `source_cluster` and `destination_cluster` labels to metrics for multicluster deployments.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** Wasm extension distribution support. TODO: docs
```

@mandarjog ^^^

Author: Added. I'll tag Mandar when I push it up

- ***Added*** support for reading certificates from Secrets, `pathType`, and `IngressClass`, which provides better support for [Kubernetes ingress](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/kubernetes-ingress/).
- ***Added*** a new `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to override proxy configuration per pod.
- ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These now read directly from the mesh configuration.
- ***Changed*** the proxy readiness probe to port 15021.
- ***Fixed*** a [bug](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16458), which blocked external HTTPS/TCP traffic in some cases.

## Security

- ***Added*** [JSON Web Token (JWT) caching](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22789) to the Istio-agent, which provides better Istio Agent SDS performance.
- ***Fixed*** the Istio Agent certificate provisioning [grace period calculation](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22617).
- ***Removed*** Security alpha API. Security beta API, which was introduced in Istio 1.5, is the only supported security API in Istio 1.6.

> ## Telemetry v2

Author: ```suggestion
## Telemetry
```

- ***Added*** configuration for gateway topology. This addresses sanitizing and providing useful [X-Forward-For headers](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/7679).
- ***Added*** experimental support for the [Kubernetes Service APIs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-apis/).
- ***Added*** support for using `appProtocol` to select the [protocol for a port](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) introduced in Kubernetes 1.18.
- ***Improved*** support for [Kubernetes ingress](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/kubernetes-ingress/), adding support for reading certificates from Secrets, `pathType`, and `IngressClass`.
- ***Added*** a new `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to override proxy configuration per pod.
- ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These are now read directly from the mesh configuration.
- ***Changed*** the proxy readiness probe to port 15021.
- ***Fixed*** a [bug](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16458) blocking external HTTPS/TCP traffic in some cases.
- TODO: add a statement around file mounted gateway removed and impact to users.

> - TODO: add a statement around networking v1alpha3 API. Will it be removed in 1.6 or announce deprecation?

Author: For booking purposes, from @linsun:
> I think @howardjohn said no change here, no plan for deprecation either. if others agree (@louiscryan @rshriram @costinm @nrjpoddar ) ok to not mention it here."

Reviewer 5: lets not mention

Author: removed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Networking APIs have graduated from v1alpha3 to beta.
```

Reviewer 3: How about announce this?  I've got multiple folks complain to me that we never announce them move to beta in 1.5.

- ***Improved*** support for [customizing v2 metrics generation](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/). This allows mesh operators to add and remove labels used in Istio metrics based on expressions over the set of available request and response attributes.
- ***Updated*** default telemetry v2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to untrusted host header and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for request hits `blackhole` and `passthrough` at gateway.
- ***Added*** automated publishing of Grafana dashboards to `grafana.com` as part of the Istio release process. Please see the [Istio org page](https://grafana.com/orgs/istio) for more information.
- ***Updated*** Grafana dashboards to adapt to the new Istiod deployment model.

## Configuration Management

## Installation

- ***Improved*** Please see the [Upgrade guide](/docs/setup/upgrade/) for migration. In-place upgrades are now possible in Istio.
- ***Removed*** the legacy Helm charts.

> - ***Added*** Allow users to add a custom hostname for istiod.

Author: For booking:

@sdake 
> this is vague. Is there associated documentation? Allowing users to add a custom hostname for Istiod sounds like we are granting permission. We serve for the benefit of our operator community. I would recommend removing the word Allow entirely and replace with something like Added mechanism to add a custom hostname for Isitod` whatever a custom hostname here means. This needs documentation or should be removed.

@linsun 
> Yes, this is useful if user needs custom hostname for istiod, docs are being worked: #7243

- ***Added*** functionality to save installation state in a `CustomResource` in the cluster.
- ***Improved*** installation to not manage the installation namespace, allowing more flexibility.
- ***Removed*** the Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments. These were disabled by default in 1.5, and all functionality has moved into Istiod.
- ***Removed*** the legacy `istio-pilot` configurations, such as Service.
- ***Removed*** ports 15029-15032 from the default `ingressgateway`. It is recommended to expose telemetry addons by [host routing](/docs/tasks/observability/gateways/) instead.
- ***Removed*** built in Istio configurations from the installation, including the Gateway, `VirtualServices`, and mTLS settings.

> - ***Added*** a new preview profile, allowing users to try out new experimental features.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** a new preview profile, allowing users to try out new experimental features that have Wasm enabled telemetry v2.
```

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.6 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

> - ***Added*** the new [Workload Entry](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource. This will allow easier configuration for non-Kubernetes workloads to join the mesh.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** the new [Workload Entry](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource. This allows easier configuration for non-Kubernetes workloads to join the mesh.
```

> - ***Added*** configuration for gateway topology. This addresses sanitizing and providing useful [X-Forward-For headers](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/7679).

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** configuration for gateway topology. This addresses providing correct [X-Forward-For headers](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/7679) and X-Forwarded-Client-Cert headers based on gateway deployment topology .
```

> - ***Added*** configuration for gateway topology. This addresses providing correct [X-Forward-For headers](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/7679) and X-Forwarded-Client-Cert headers based on gateway deployment topology .

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** configuration for gateway topology. This addresses providing correct [X-Forwarded-For headers](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/7679) and X-Forwarded-Client-Cert headers based on gateway deployment topology .
```

- ***Added*** experimental support for the [Kubernetes Service APIs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-apis/).
- ***Added*** support for using `appProtocol` to select the [protocol for a port](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) introduced in Kubernetes 1.18.

> - ***Changed*** gateway SDS to be enabled by default. File mounted gateway continues to be available to help users to transition to secure gateway SDS.

Reviewer 13: Do you mean Gateway the kind?  If so it should have a capital G

Author: Done

> - ***Changed*** gateway SDS to be enabled by default.  File mounted gateway continues to be available to help users to transition to secure gateway SDS.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Changed*** gateway SDS to be enabled by default. File mounted gateway continues to be available to help users to transition to secure gateway SDS.
```

> - ***Improved*** support for [Kubernetes ingress](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/kubernetes-ingress/), adding support for reading certificates from Secrets, `pathType`, and `IngressClass`.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** support for reading certificates from Secrets, `pathType`, and `IngressClass`, which provides better support for [Kubernetes ingress](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/kubernetes-ingress/).
```

- ***Added*** a new `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to override proxy configuration per pod.

> - ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These are now read directly from the mesh configuration.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These now read directly from the mesh configuration.
```

- ***Fixed*** a [bug](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16458) blocking external HTTPS/TCP traffic in some cases.

> - TODO: add a statement around file mounted gateway removed and impact to users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Secure gateway SDS is enabled by default and file mounted gateway continues to be available to help users to transition to secure gateway SDS.
```

> - ***Fixed*** a [bug](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16458) blocking external HTTPS/TCP traffic in some cases.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Fixed*** a [bug](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16458), which blocked external HTTPS/TCP traffic in some cases.
```

## Security

> 

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion

***Improved*** Istio Agent SDS performance by [caching the JWT](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22789).
***Improved*** Istio Agent certificate provisioning [grace period calculation](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22617).
```

> - ***Removed*** Security alpha API.

Reviewer 14: @liminw

> - ***Removed*** Security alpha API.

Author: Hopefully I've clarified this.

## Telemetry

> - ***Added*** experimental [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/) filter support. This feature enables operators to configure new attributes for use in telemetry, based on request information. A primary use case for this feature is labeling of traffic by API method.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** experimental support for [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/) filters. This enables operators to configure new attributes for use in telemetry, based on request information. A primary use case for this feature is labeling of traffic by API method.
```

> - ***Added*** experimental [mesh-wide tracing configuration API](/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/configurability/). This API provides control of trace sampling rates, the [maximum tag lengths](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14563) for URL tags, and [custom tags extraction](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13018) for all traces within the mesh.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** an experimental [mesh-wide tracing configuration API](/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/configurability/). This API provides control of trace sampling rates, the [maximum tag lengths](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14563) for URL tags, and [custom tags extraction](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/13018) for all traces within the mesh.
```

> - ***Improved*** Prometheus integration experience by adding standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are available in the [operations guide for Prometheus](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus#option-2-metrics-merging/).

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads, which improves the Prometheus integration experience. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are available in the [operations guide for Prometheus](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus#option-2-metrics-merging/).
```

> - ***Improved*** support for [customizing v2 metrics generation](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/). This allows mesh operators to add and remove labels used in Istio metrics based on expressions over the set of available request and response attributes.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** the ability for mesh operators to add and remove labels used in Istio metrics, based on expressions over the set of available request and response attributes. This improves Istio's support for [customizing v2 metrics generation](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/).
```

> - ***Updated*** default telemetry v2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to untrusted host header and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for request hits `blackhole` and `passthrough` at gateway.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Updated*** default telemetry v2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at the gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to an untrusted host header, and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for requests that hit `blackhole` and `passthrough` at the gateway.
```

> - ***Updated*** default telemetry v2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at the gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to an untrusted host header, and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for requests that hit `blackhole` and `passthrough` at the gateway.

Author: We are asking for clarification from docs. We've seen it both ways in documentation. @rcaballeromx ?

- ***Added*** automated publishing of Grafana dashboards to `grafana.com` as part of the Istio release process. Please see the [Istio org page](https://grafana.com/orgs/istio) for more information.
- ***Updated*** Grafana dashboards to adapt to the new Istiod deployment model.

## Configuration Management

## Installation

- ***Added*** support for Istio in-place upgrades. See the [Upgrade guide](/docs/setup/upgrade/) for more information.

> - ***Removed*** the legacy Helm charts.

Author: They have been removed. The upgrade guide covers this. They were previously mentioned on the same line, but I was asked to separate them.

> - ***Added*** Allow users to add a custom hostname for istiod.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** the ability for users to add a custom hostname for istiod.
```

> - ***Changed*** Gateway ports used (15020) and [resolution](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23432#issuecomment-622208734) for end users.

Author: Looking at this more closely and this is an upgrade concern. @brian-avery I'll add something to your upgrade section and mention this here.

- ***Added*** functionality to save installation state in a `CustomResource` in the cluster.
- ***Changed*** the Istio installation to no longer manage the installation namespace, allowing more flexibility.

> - ***Removed*** the Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments. These were disabled by default in 1.5, and all functionality has moved into Istiod.

Reviewer 15: "all functionality has moved into Istiod" should be changed to: "all functionalities have been moved into Istiod".

> - ***Removed*** the Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments. These were disabled by default in 1.5, and all functionality has moved into Istiod.

Reviewer 15: "the Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments" should be "the deployments of Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley".

Author: Added "separate"

- ***Removed*** the legacy `istio-pilot` configurations, such as Service.
- ***Removed*** ports 15029-15032 from the default `ingressgateway`. It is recommended to expose telemetry addons by [host routing](/docs/tasks/observability/gateways/) instead.
- ***Removed*** built in Istio configurations from the installation, including the Gateway, `VirtualServices`, and mTLS settings.

> - ***Added*** a new preview profile, allowing users to try out new experimental features that include WASM enabled telemetry v2.

Reviewer 11: Can you say the new profile name here just for clarity?

Author: It's called `preview`. I'll try to make sure that is more explicit.

- ***Added*** `istioctl install` command as a replacement for `istioctl manifest apply`.

## Operator

## istioctl

> - ***Improved*** the display characteristics of the istioctl command. Surprise awaits!

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** better display characteristics for the istioctl command.
```

- ***Improved*** --set flag paths support key:value list selection.

> - ***Improved*** Kubernetes overlays patching mechanism now supports deletes and setting non-scalar values.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** support for deletes and setting non-scalar values when using the Kubernetes overlays patching mechanism.
```

> ## Miscellaneous changes
> 
> - ***Improved*** the quality of the website content and structure

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
## Miscellaneous changes

- ***Added*** new and improved Istio documentation. For more information, see [Website content changes](/about/log/).
```

> - ***Added*** new and improved Istio documentation. For more information, see [Website content changes](/about/log/).

Reviewer 13: Shouldn't this be taken as a given? It's an odd thing to see in release notes

Reviewer 11: This line item is mainly useful to advertise the little-known page that actually tells users which doc pages have been updated for very major and minor release.

- ***Added*** experimental support for the [Kubernetes Service APIs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-apis/).
- ***Added*** support for using `appProtocol` to select the [protocol for a port](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) introduced in Kubernetes 1.18.
- ***Changed*** Gateway SDS to be enabled by default. File mounted gateway continues to be available to help users to transition to secure gateway SDS.
- ***Added*** support for reading certificates from Secrets, `pathType`, and `IngressClass`, which provides better support for [Kubernetes ingress](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/kubernetes-ingress/).
- ***Added*** a new `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to override proxy configuration per pod.
- ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These now read directly from the mesh configuration.
- ***Changed*** the proxy readiness probe to port 15021.
- ***Fixed*** a [bug](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16458), which blocked external HTTPS/TCP traffic in some cases.

## Security

> ***Improved*** Istio Agent SDS performance by [caching the JWT](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22789).

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
- ***Improved*** Istio Agent SDS performance by [caching the JWT](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22789).
```

> ***Improved*** Istio Agent certificate provisioning [grace period calculation](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22617).

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
- ***Improved*** Istio Agent certificate provisioning [grace period calculation](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22617).
```

> - ***Improved*** Istio Agent SDS performance by [caching the JWT](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22789).
> - ***Improved*** Istio Agent certificate provisioning [grace period calculation](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22617).

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- ***Added*** [JSON Web Token (JWT) caching](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22789) to the Istio-agent, which provides better Istio Agent SDS performance.
- ***Fixed*** the Istio Agent certificate provisioning [grace period calculation](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/22617).
```

- ***Removed*** Security alpha API. Security beta API, which was introduced in Istio 1.5, is the only supported security API in Istio 1.6.

> ## Telemetry

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
## Telemetry v2
```

- ***Added*** the ability for mesh operators to add and remove labels used in Istio metrics, based on expressions over the set of available request and response attributes. This improves Istio's support for [customizing v2 metrics generation](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/).
- ***Updated*** default telemetry v2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at the gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to an untrusted host header, and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for requests that hit `blackhole` and `passthrough` at the gateway.
- ***Added*** automated publishing of Grafana dashboards to `grafana.com` as part of the Istio release process. Please see the [Istio org page](https://grafana.com/orgs/istio) for more information.
- ***Updated*** Grafana dashboards to adapt to the new Istiod deployment model.

> ## Configuration Management
> 

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
```

- ***Changed*** gateway readiness port used from 15020 to 15021. If you check health on your Istio `ingressgateway` from your Kubernetes network load balancer you will need to update the port.
- ***Added*** functionality to save installation state in a `CustomResource` in the cluster.
- ***Changed*** the Istio installation to no longer manage the installation namespace, allowing more flexibility.
- ***Removed*** the separate Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments. These were disabled by default in 1.5, and all functionality has moved into Istiod.
- ***Removed*** the legacy `istio-pilot` configurations, such as Service.
- ***Removed*** ports 15029-15032 from the default `ingressgateway`. It is recommended to expose telemetry addons by [host routing](/docs/tasks/observability/gateways/) instead.
- ***Removed*** built in Istio configurations from the installation, including the Gateway, `VirtualServices`, and mTLS settings.
- ***Added*** a new profile, called `preview`, allowing users to try out new experimental features that include WASM enabled telemetry v2.
- ***Added*** `istioctl install` command as a replacement for `istioctl manifest apply`.

> ## Operator
> 

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
```

## istioctl

- ***Added*** better display characteristics for the istioctl command.
- ***Added*** support for key:value list selection when using --set flag paths.
- ***Added*** support for deletes and setting non-scalar values when using the Kubernetes overlays patching mechanism.

> ## Miscellaneous changes

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
## Documentation changes
```

- ***Changed*** Gateway ports used (15020) and [resolution](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23432#issuecomment-622208734) for end users.
- ***Added*** functionality to save installation state in a `CustomResource` in the cluster.
- ***Improved*** installation to not manage the installation namespace, allowing more flexibility.
- ***Removed*** the Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments. These were disabled by default in 1.5, and all functionality has moved into Istiod.
- ***Removed*** the legacy `istio-pilot` configurations, such as Service.
- ***Removed*** ports 15029-15032 from the default `ingressgateway`. It is recommended to expose telemetry addons by [host routing](/docs/tasks/observability/gateways/) instead.
- ***Removed*** built in Istio configurations from the installation, including the Gateway, `VirtualServices`, and mTLS settings.
- ***Added*** a new preview profile, allowing users to try out new experimental features.
- ***Added*** `istioctl install` command as a replacement for `istioctl manifest apply`.

## Operator

## istioctl

- ***Improved*** the display characteristics of the istioctl command. Surprise awaits!

> 

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
- ***Improved*** --set flag paths support key:value list selection.
- ***Improved*** k8s.overlays patching mechanism now supports deletes and setting non-scalar values.
```

## User facing changes
- ***Added*** experimental support for the [Kubernetes Service APIs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-apis).
- ***Added*** the new [Workload Entry](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource. This will allow easier configuration for non-Kubernetes workloads to join the mesh.
- **Added** configuration for gateway topology.

> - ***Added*** experimental [mesh-wide tracing configuration API](docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/configurability/). This API provides control of trace sampling rates, the maximum tag lengths for URL tags, and custom tags extraction for all traces within the mesh. 

Reviewer 6: this link requires a leading / for the mesh-wide tracing configuration API.

Author: done

- **Added** experimental [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/) filter support. This feature enables operators to configure new attributes for use in telemetry, based on request information. A primary use case for this feature is labeling of traffic by API method.
- TODO: add a statement around networking v1alpha3 API. Will it be removed in 1.6 or announce deprecation?

## Improvements

> - ***Improved*** support for [Kubernetes Ingress](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/kubernetes-ingress/), adding support for reading certificates from Secrets, `pathType`, and IngressClass.

Reviewer 6: Kubernetes ingress. I don't think `Kubernetes Ingress` is the correct casing.

- ***Added*** a new `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to override proxy configuration per pod.

> - ***Added*** support for using appProtocol to select the [protocol for a port](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) for Kubernetes 1.18+.

Reviewer 6: `1.18+` should be in backticks. A better option that may pass the spelling linter is "introduced in Kubernetes 1.18"

Author: I like `"introduced in Kubernetes 1.18"`.

- ***Improved*** Prometheus integration experience by adding standard Prometheus scrape annotations to proxies and the control plane workloads. This removes the need for specialized configuration to discover and consume Istio metrics. More details are available in the [operations guide for Prometheus](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus#option-2-metrics-merging).
- ***Updated*** default telemetry v2 configuration to avoid using host header to extract destination service name at gateway. This prevents unbound cardinality due to untrusted host header and implies that destination service labels are going to be omitted for request hits blackhole and passthrough at gateway.
- ***Improved*** support for [customizing v2 metrics generation](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/). This allows mesh operators to add and remove labels used in Istio metrics based on expressions over the set of available request and response attributes.

> - ***Improved*** the output of the istioctl install command (e.g. more information is displayed to the user, use of color)

Reviewer 6: gah - this is an awesome feature. Either surprise the operator with it, or communicate the exact change.

Something that is a good surprise:

`**Improved** the display characteristics of the `istioctl` command. Surprise awaits!`

That may be too corny...

Author: Let's try your suggestion and see how it plays itself out.

 - ***Added*** `istioctl install` command as a replacement for `istioctl manifest apply`. 
 

> ## Installation Impact

Reviewer 6: lowercase Impact

Author: done

- TODO: add a statement around file mounted gateway removed and impact to users.
- ***Removed*** the legacy Helm charts. Please see the [Upgrade guide](/docs/setup/upgrade/) for migration.
- ***Removed*** most configuration flags and environment variables for the proxy. These are now read directly from the mesh configuration.
- ***Changed*** the proxy readiness probe to port 15021
- ***Removed*** Security alpha API
- ***Removed*** the Citadel, Sidecar Injector, and Galley deployments. These were disabled by default in 1.5, and all functionality has moved into Istiod.

> - ***Removed*** ports 15029-15032 from the default ingressgateway. It is recommended to expose telemetry addons by [Host routing](/docs/tasks/observability/gateways/) instead.

Reviewer 6: lowercase Host.

Perhaps this style guide will help: https://istio.io/about/contribute/formatting/

Author: I originally copied and pasted the text. I should have done more editing prior to posting. Fixed. I'll review the formatting section and try and make my updates.

- ***Improved*** installation to not manage the installation namespace, allowing more flexibility.
- ***Removed*** the legacy istio-pilot configurations, such as Service.
- ***Removed*** built in Istio configurations from the installation, including the Gateway, VirtualServices, and mTLS settings.
- ***Added*** a new preview profile, allowing users to try out new experimental features.
- ***Added*** functionality to save installation state in a CustomResource in the cluster.
- ***Changed*** Gateway ports used (15020) and [resolution](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23432#issuecomment-622208734) for end users
- ***Added*** Allow users to add a custom hostname for istiod

> ## Bug Fixes & miscellaneous changes

Reviewer 6: lowercase `Fixes`

Author: done
